# GraphQL Explorer 🚀

Welcome to **GraphQL Explorer**, a project designed to provide a practical demonstration of GraphQL's potential by interacting with a mock JSON API. Dive into a comprehensive guide that features the integration of a JSON-server powered data store and a robust GraphQL interface built with Express and TypeScript. Explore, understand, and harness the potential of GraphQL queries, mutations, and resolvers.

## Features 🌟

- **Mock Datastore**: Leverage the power of `json-server` to create a full-fake REST API populated with random data generated by `@faker-js/faker`.
- **GraphQL API**: Experience a TypeScript-powered GraphQL server built on Express, providing full CRUD capabilities for our data.
- **Modular Schema Design**: Appreciate the beauty of a structured and organized schema broken down into types and resolvers for better maintainability.

## Table of Contents

- [Setup and Installation](#setup-and-installation)
- [Running the Servers](#running-the-servers)
- [Testing with GraphQL Queries](#testing-with-graphql-queries)
- [Contributions](#contributions)
- [License](#license)

## Setup and Installation 🔧

### Prerequisites

- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.

### Steps

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/lkubicek1/graphql-explorer.git
    cd graphql-explorer
    ```

2. Install dependencies for both projects:

    ```bash
    cd datastore && npm install
    cd ../explorer && npm install
    ```

3. Generate the mock data:

    ```bash
    cd datastore && npm run generate
    ```

## Running the Servers 🖥

1. Start the JSON Server:

    ```bash
    cd datastore && npm start
    ```

   This will run the JSON server on `http://localhost:3001`.

2. Start the GraphQL Server:

    ```bash
    cd explorer && npm run dev
    ```

   Navigate to `http://localhost:3002/graphql` to access the GraphiQL interface and start querying!

## Testing with GraphQL Queries 🧪

Refer to the **[GraphQL documentation](https://graphql.org/learn/)** to understand the query syntax. Here are a few sample queries and mutations to get you started:

```graphql
# Fetch a user by ID and their associated company
{
  user(id: "1") {
    firstName
    company {
      name
    }
  }
}

# Add a new user
mutation {
  addUser(firstName: "Alice", age: 30, companyId: "2") {
    id
    firstName
  }
}
```

Feel free to explore and experiment!

## License 📄
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. See the LICENSE file for more details.